>> Kadi Kraman: So functionally,
our app is now ready.
We have a shopping list,
where we can add things to our list.
We can delete them,
we can mark them as completed,
we have some haptics,
we have ASIC storage.
And we have our counter or
timeout scheduler,
whatever you wanna call it,
where we count down from a time and
we can schedule notifications
to remind us to do something.
And the last thing, I just wanted to add
some joy to this counter application.
So we're going to add some confetti,
who doesn't love confetti
when good things happen?
And of course, add a good success haptic
feedback when you press this button.
[COUGH]
>> Kadi Kraman: So
for the haptics,
should be an old hand at this, but
let's install, let's import haptics.
So import star as Haptics
from expo-haptics
>> Kadi Kraman: And just before we
schedule a notification in here,
so when we press
the scheduleNotification button,
let's do Haptics.notificationAsync.
And let's do Haptics.,
>> Kadi Kraman:
NotificationFeedbackStyle.Success
>> Kadi Kraman: So there should be a big
old heavy haptic feedback.
So let me try it on my Android phone.
>> Kadi Kraman: So if I hit this, that was
a nice satisfying feeling haptic feedback.
>> Kadi Kraman: And lastly,
let's add some confetti.
So this is just a little JavaScript
library to add some confetti
into your React Native app.
So it was a bit cute and fun.
So let's install the ConfettiCannon.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, so the way
this works, it looks like I need to.
Whenever you see refreshing or
the app doesn't load,
then the standard thing to try,
by the way,
I think I haven't mentioned this before,
is you stop your bundler.
So wherever your metro process is,
you stop it and then you start it again.
If it still doesn't work,
if you think something is cached,
you can actually start with --reset-cache.
So just an FYI.
In this case,
I will just start it and reload.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
>> Kadi Kraman: Turn it off and on again.
[COUGH] All right, so ConfettiCannon.
So we're gonna place the ConfettiCannon
at the end of our screen.
So Confetti,
it should be probably imported.
So import ConfettiCannon from,
>> Kadi Kraman:
react-native-confetti-cannon.
And now, we're going to render it
at the very bottom of our file.
>> Kadi Kraman: Right, so
we need to trigger this
ConfettiCannon programmatically.
So it's kind of here, but we don't want
it to fire when you just open the page.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
the way we fire it is using a ref.
So a ref is something we haven't used
before, but it is another React hook,
and it basically contains a reference
to an element on the screen.
So you can call functions on it, for
example, which is what
we're going to use it for.
So confettiRef, so we'll do a useRef,
and we're gonna start with nothing,
which is fine.
>> Kadi Kraman: [COUGH] I'm just
gonna type it as any because I think
the ConfettiCannon didn't have types.
>> Kadi Kraman: And so
what we'll do is we'll pass this ref
into the ConfettiCannon component.
So ref = confettiRef.
>> Kadi Kraman: And then we have some
properties as well that we can do.
So let's do a count of 50.
I think I found the default count
was a bit intense on Android phones.
And,
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
we also need to set where
we want it to be displayed.
So let's do an origin.
And okay, so by default, I'm going to
just do x0, y0 and see what happens.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so we go on
the screen and there's a media of confetti
from the left of our screen, which is
the x0, y0 position on your screen.
And this is great, but
not exactly what we want.
So we wanted to, firstly, not stay here,
so we wanted to fade out.
fadeOut = true.
I think we can just pass in
fadeOut because it's a Boolean.
There you go.
So now it will launch and
it will sprinkle down and
it will disappear, which is better.
And we also want it to actually be
in the center of the page
instead of in the corner.
And we want it to be in
the middle of our screen, but
the problem is that screens
are a different size.
So if we just do x, let's say 100,
>> Kadi Kraman: Then this
might be here on my screen, but the phone
screens aren't always the same distance.
So we can use the dimensions from
React Native to get the dimensions
of the current device to position
its center for that device.
So this is Dimensions from here,
from React Native.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we can do Dimensions,
>> Kadi Kraman: get(window),
and we do width/2.
So now, it's actually quite handy for
testing when it fires every
time I open the page.
There we go.
And now, it's fired from the center.
In fact, now that I look at it,
I think I would like it to be just off
the screen when it fires rather than
having this little pile of confetti.
So I can make it use the y value
to put it slightly off the screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: I think that looks better.
And actually, we use this
Dimensions value from React Native.
It's worth knowing that this
actually comes with a hook as well.
So instead of this, I could use,
>> Kadi Kraman: useWindowDimensions.
So useWindowDimensions is also
an export from React Native.
And then this gives you a width,
the window width.
So instead of doing Dimensions.get,
I could actually use
this width here instead.
And the good thing about that is
if you're building a mobile app,
which is responsive, so
you could set it to landscape or portrait,
then this would adapt.
Otherwise, with the initial
implementation,
where we import dimensions from
React Native, then it is set once.
And then it won't get recalculated
if you changed your device size.
So that is handy.
Let's do autoStart = false.
And we can use our confettiRef
instead to start it programmatically.
So when we go to this
scheduleNotification, so
we kind of kept it as
scheduleNotification,
although it's kinda like I've completed
the thing, but let's keep it.
So let's also do our confetti.
So confettiRef?.current, so
refs always have ref.current, and start.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now,
this confetti should confetti when we
press the button, which is awesome.
Everything is so
much more satisfying with confetti.
>> Kadi Kraman: And lastly,
it's worth updating this to something,
I kinda call this thing, because it really
depends on something that you need to do.
But a good example for
me is washing the car.
So something you need to do every two
weeks, and it tends to take longer.
So this is what the initial thing that
I had in mind when I was building this.
So I'm gonna change this to two weeks.
Who knows what two weeks
is in milliseconds?
So two weeks in milliseconds is,
right, so we've got 60 seconds.
And then this will be one hour,
and this would be a day.
So this would then be 14 days,
which is two weeks.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so it's a thing
that I want to do every two weeks.
And I'm gonna just update this name
as well, so I've washed the car.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
And,
>> Kadi Kraman: Car wash due in, and
Car wash overdue by.
And in my notification, oops,
where's the notification?
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's say
Time to wash the car.
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's add a car emoji.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So now it's updated to 14 days.
So I didn't use this value for testing
because looking at this countdown is
a little bit more boring
than looking at ten seconds.
But the idea is you could tweak this
history to also see how frequently you've
done it.
So let's say that you need to
wash the car every two weeks, but
maybe it took three weeks and
maybe it took one week.
So you can have some
additional handling here that
will tell you the distance between
the last two history items.
Let me just, for the last time,
double-check this on my Android phone.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So car washed due in 13 days, but
I'm very eager, so washing the car now.
And I get some confetti and the item
is added to my history, which is great.